The Joe Rogan experience.
How much time before there's regular travel back and forth,
Tamar's roughly
like a real civilization on Mars.
Well, I think it's going to take a while to build that a real civilization
that I, that the real, the threshold that really matters is
for getting past the great filter, uh, is,
do we have enough resources on Mars, such that if the,
if the spaceships from earth stop coming, you can.
Survive. Yeah.
So I can only be just missing one little thing. You'd be like,
you're on a long sea voyage. And the only thing you're missing is vitamin C. Uh,
it's a luck. Uh, it's only a matter of time, you know? Yeah.
And those can be curtains. So you gotta have, uh,
all the things necessary to sustain civilization on Mars. Um,
and the reason that those shifts from, oh, stop coming could be world war three,
or it could be due to a slow decline of civilization.
So civilization here on earth could end with a bang or a whimper.
Um, or natural disasters. Yeah. Asteroid impacts. Yeah.
And the band category. Yeah. It'll just be like a whole series of things, like,
see, like what killed the dinosaurs as well. It wasn't just one thing. Right.
It was like a whole bunch of things happened in a row. And, and, uh,
you know, um, while like they could have taken any one of those things,
they had like three things happen and no dinosaurs, which is.
Kind of amazing that crocodiles are still here. Yeah.
Those.
While.
They're resilient crocodiles that, um,
they all live on decayed meat and they love rotten meat.
And so in, uh, any kind of disastrous such situation,
there's a lot, a lot of dead creatures and the crocodiles love it. So, um,
that's why they're around crocodiles and bugs and mushrooms.
Um, and shrews.
Shrews, and just while we're here. Yeah, exactly. Great. Great, great, great,
great, great grandparents were true.
What a strange thing. So like you have to come from, so there's hope.
There's hope for all you wrote ins out there. Yeah. One day you can go to Mars,
just keep doing your homework. That's silly. So,
so there'll be that you see the great filter. What did you mean by that?
Um.
Well, so there's something called like the Fermi paradox of like,
where are the aliens? Yeah. So where are the Indians?
Um, and, um, I think it was called Sagan that said like,
uh, if
they're either are a lot of aliens or none and
the either they're equally terrifying. Um,
if there are a lot of aliens, well,
I mean the invasion ship slash uh,
uh, you know, bug infestation, just, you know, like
Starship.
Troopers style.
Well, yeah. I mean, it's like,
it's an answer realization might just view us as like a bug infestation. Right.
You know, it's like, Hey, we left that planet. It was fine.
Now it's got a bunch of bugs, just go fumigate. It, you know, um,
like re fumigate a house. Um, that's certainly possible. And then,
uh, but if there are no aliens, well,
could it be that all civilizations are just destroyed before they become, enter,
enter a stellar? You know? So, uh,
and I wouldn't be clear, like to the best of my knowledge, I,
there is no evidence for alien life on earth that alien, I there's, no,
there's no evidence for alien life. There's no direct evidence for alien life.
No, no. And if somebody says, oh, what about this alien? Uh, you know,
uh, citing or whatever. I'm like, listen,
it's gotta be at least as good as a seven 11 or ATM cam. Okay.
It's like somebody has got to have at least like an iPhone one level camera,
like something, you know, the.
Problem with that is it's just too easy to fake things today, too.
Yeah, sure. I look at least try hard in there and faking.
Are you familiar with, uh, commander David favor's account of a,
the tic-tac UFO that he encountered off of the coast of San
Diego? Let you know, Lex Lex Friedman. Yeah.
Lex Friedman interviewed him on his podcast and I interviewed him as well.
And if you ever get a chance to listen to Alexis, a conversation with them,
it's really excellent. But this guy is a Naval fighter pilot.
And he talked about this thing that they tracked on radar that went from more
than 60,000 feet above sea level to one foot in less than a second shaped like a
tic-tac no visible sign of propulsion, uh,
blocked radar, uh,
actively jammed their tracking systems and then went to their predetermined
point that they were supposed to, uh, that the, uh,
the fighter jet was supposed to scramble to went to it, uh, 30 miles away.
And, you know, a couple seconds, like they have no idea how it did it.
They don't know what it is. And these guys that were, uh,
were working for the Navy off the coast,
said they encountered them several times. They didn't know what they were.
They didn't know what to do.
Or something.
They do. They have video of it. Uh, they have video of it. They have, um,
there's if you ever see the New York times article that came out in 2017 about
this stuff.
Uh, I don't know. Yeah.
There was a New York times article in 2017 that was detailing this.
And there's a couple of, there's a,
a couple other different sightings that were very similar.
They were trying to figure out what these things were and why.
And it was also in the COVID relief package that the CIA was
supposed to release. Yeah.
The politicians are trying to figure out what all this is.
So they try to get them to release all the information they have within 180
days.
Honestly, I think I would know if there are aliens.
I would hope so.
That's why I'm asking, you know, I, I, I be jumping on that. Like, you're like.
You should watch that conversation with Lex. It's like, here's the thing.
Do you think that they would want us to know?
Or do you think they would just be observing and making sure we don't blow
ourselves up? Would.
Civilization sure. Our subtle, I mean,
if they wanted us to know, obviously they, they could just for sure know,
show up and walk down main street, you know, I'm an alien check me out,
you know? Right. Oh, here's my space.
If I just land in the middle of times square, I'll be like, right. Okay.
We're hover over downtown LA. Yeah. Yeah. We were.
Like, okay, we believe you. Um, so w whatever they are,
they are very subtle, very subtle. These aliens. How.
Often do you think about it?
None. Zero. Zero.
Even though you're thinking about an interplanetary travel,
you don't really think about aliens.
No. I mean, if they show up, I'm like, great, okay, now this is new information,
but yeah.
What an interesting way of putting it. This is.
New information, this new information, like, where are you guys up till now?
Yeah. Um, so anyway, uh let's um,
if, if, if I see some evidence for aliens of, I'll be like,
I'll be the first to be like, ah, alien.
Right. Then you'll investigate.
But until then you think it's kind of a waste of time. Yeah. Yeah.
It definitely seems like a waste of time if nothing's happened so far,
you think about all the people that have been researching aliens for their whole
life, and they have very little to show for it.
Well, you know.
There's other than cool stories.
Yeah. Um, I mean, we have archeologists going all over the world,
looking at things, you know, where this, this people, like,
if we would have find something like, let's say like a cube of titanium,
just like a one inch cube titanium, see in the middle of the permit,
I'd be like aliens. For sure.
There was no way they could've made a titanium back then. Nope. There's no way.
That's hard. That's all one Oak do even need a computer.
Like a computer would be like, Hey, wow, computers.
They didn't have computers back then. So it must be aliens, but,
but even just like some advanced metallurgy, anything like mean,
is there anything like that.
Right now? Nothing like that, that we could point to that we can't do.
Everything that we've found archeologically is consistent with the time, uh,
the technology they had at that time.
Geologically. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So you just talk about old stuff. Yeah.
Yeah. Just throughout history. It's not like, yeah. Like,
like failing miserably, there'll be something buried somewhere. I think. Um,
we haven't seen anything. So anyway, I mean, maybe there are aliens,
but they're very subtle if they are, they're just very, uh,
they're being pretty shy. So, um,
far as we can tell there's none.
So nor are we seeing signals from any other solar
system or anything like that. So, um, now,
and the thing is that, um, on a galactic timescale,
even with sublime travel, you could absolutely colonize the whole galaxy,
even some of the neighboring galaxies. Um, so if you gave,
if you said a million years with, with, with, and say, there's no,
there's no new physics. Could you colonize the galaxy in a million years?
Absolutely. The entire galaxy.
So you would start with Mars, build bases on Mars,
then you use Mars to jump off to all these other planets set up places there and
over thousands of years.
Yeah. Kind of like, you know, software, one solar system to the next. And yeah.
It seems like that's imperative,
like that has to happen if the human civilization is going to survive because
our planet is just,
we're too subject to natural disasters and our own folly.
And if the species is going to survive, we kind of have to escape.
It's mostly about the species. I mean, there've been some real doozies of like,
you know,
massive meteors and supervolcanoes and the continents
Moodle over the place. And it's been a snowball and super hot. It, the,
if you read like the geological history of earth,
it's like very long and complicated. Um, so,
and then there'd been so many extinction events, not like just a few. Um, yeah.
I mean the, the Permian extinction event,
that was a real rough one where it's like, well,
over 90% of all species died out. Um,
and that doesn't tell the whole story because a huge chunk of the remaining
species were fun guy and, um, you know,
like sponges and stuff like that, you know, uh, like if are you,
are you a sponge? Okay. You probably don't. Okay.
They're still around. Are you a mushroom?
Do you like being in the dark and feasting on dead? Dead, dead,
dead plant and animal matter. Okay. But if you're like a human you're screwed.
Catch new episodes of the Joe Rogan experience for free, only on Spotify,
watch back catalog J R E videos on Spotify,
including clips easily seamlessly switch between video
and audio experience on Spotify.
You can listen to the JRE in the background while using other apps and can
download episodes to save on data costs. All for free.
Spotify is absolutely free.
You don't have to have a premium account to watch new JRE episodes.
You just need to search for the JRE on your Spotify app.
Go to Spotify now to get this full episode of the Joe Rogan.